Build Rhidmo from Source

All examples below assume you'll obtain the Rhidmo source code using git CLI.
An alternative is to download release-specific Rhidmo source code snapshots
directly from our official releases page using your browser:

https://github.com/foxysoft/idm-extension-rhidmo/releases/

Non-Reproducible (aka Standard) Builds

Non-reproducible or standard builds are perfect for building Rhidmo for routine
development work. This method works cross-platform on Linux, Windows and macOS
and is fast, efficient and produces correct binaries.

However, the exact byte sequence of Rhidmo binaries created this way will not
be reproducible by others, because it depends on the specific OS and Java
version you have used for compiling. Hence, this method cannot be used to
publish or verify official Rhidmo releases. For these specific cases, skip to
section Reproducible Builds.

Non-reproducible builds require Java 17+ and Maven 3.9.x+ to be installed on
your local machine. Maven downloads dependencies from the Internet by default,
so your build machine will need to be connected to the Internet. Please note
that building Rhidmo requires a higher Java version than running Rhidmo; the
latter is supported down to Java 8.

 git clone https://github.com/foxysoft/idm-extension-rhidmo
 cd idm-extension-rhidmo
 mvn package

Reproducible Builds

Use Cases

There are two cases where reproducible builds provide benefits over standard
builds:

 1. As Rhidmo user, you need to verify an existing Rhidmo binary release
    available from GitHub to be bit by bit identical to what you get when
    building that same Rhidmo version from source.

    The rationale is security, specifically preventing deployment of malicious
    code to your SAP® system.

 2. As Rhidmo committer, you're about to publish a new Rhidmo release on
    GitHub, including a new Rhidmo binary release ZIP for others to download.

    The rationale is that publishing reproducible binaries is a prerequisite
    for others to verify their Rhidmo binary download later on (see previous
    case).

Please note that both creating and cleaning up Rhidmo reproducible builds is
terribly wasteful in terms of resources, specifically bandwidth and CPU. Please
don't perform reproducible builds without a good reason.

Create

Creating and verifying reproducible Rhidmo binaries is supported starting from
version 1.3.0. It currently works on Linux only and requires Docker to be
installed on your local machine. Java and/or Maven are not required. As with
standard builds, your build machine requires outbound Internet access.

 git clone https://github.com/foxysoft/idm-extension-rhidmo
 cd idm-extension-rhidmo

 # Reproducible builds make most sense for tagged releases - we use the latest tag here.
 # Change to something like latestRelease="1.3.0" to verify another release's binaries.
 latestRelease="$(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)"
 git checkout "$latestRelease"

 ./rhidmo-repro-build.sh

Not only will these commands create Rhidmo binaries as usual, but they'll also
display a cryptographic hash (SHA-256) of the generated Rhidmo binary release
ZIP at the end. You can manually compare this value to the hash displayed on
our releases page next to the downloadable Rhidmo binary release (sha256:...).
Both values must be identical.

Cleanup

Before switching back from reproducible to standard builds again, you'll need
to perform specific cleanup. This is because target files and directories
created by reproducible builds are owned by root. Hence, your next standard
build will likely fail to delete or overwrite them due to permission errors.

Always use the following command for cleaning up all reproducible build output
and prevent file permission issues:

 ./rhidmo-repro-build.sh --clean

